





King Charles III





William, Prince of Wales





Charles III(King-in-Council)





Starmer ministry (L)


Keir Starmer (L)


David Lammy (L)


(King-in-Parliament)



Charles III








The Lord Reed of Allermuir


Lord Sales


Andrew Bailey


Monetary Policy Committee





The diplomatic foreign relations of the United Kingdom are conducted by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, headed by the foreign secretary. The prime minister and numerous other agencies play a role in setting policy, and many institutions and businesses have a voice and a role.


The United Kingdom was the world's foremost power during the 19th and early 20th centuries, most notably during the so-called "Pax Britannica"—a period of unrivaled supremacy and unprecedented international peace during the mid-to-late 1800s. The country continued to be widely considered a superpower until the Suez crisis of 1956 and the dismantling of the British Empire left the UK's dominant role in global affairs to be gradually diminished. Nevertheless, the United Kingdom remains a great power and a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. The UK is a founding member of AUKUS, the Commonwealth, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the G7, the G20, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, additionally the UK is a member of CPTPP. The UK was also a founding member state of the European Union, however due to the outcome of a 2016 membership referendum, proceedings to withdraw from the EU began in 2017 and concluded when the UK formally left the EU on 31 January 2020, and the transition period on 31 December 2020 with an EU trade agreement. Since the vote and the conclusion of trade talks with the EU, policymakers have begun pursuing new trade agreements with other global partners.


History

Following the formation of the Kingdom of Great Britain (which united England and Scotland) in 1707, British foreign relations largely continued those of the Kingdom of England. British foreign policy initially focused on achieving a balance of power within Europe, with no one country achieving dominance over the affairs of the continent. This policy remained a major justification for Britain's wars against Napoleon, and for British involvement in the First and Second World Wars. Secondly Britain continued the expansion of its colonial "First British Empire" by migration and investment.


France was the chief enemy until the defeat of Napoleon in 1815. It had a much larger population and a more powerful army, but a weaker navy. The British were generally successful in their many wars. The notable exception, the American War of Independence (1775–1783), saw Britain, without any major allies, defeated by the American colonials who had the support of France, the Netherlands and (indirectly) Spain. A favoured British diplomatic strategy involved subsidising the armies of continental allies (such as Prussia), thereby turning London's enormous financial power to military advantage. Britain relied heavily on its Royal Navy for security, seeking to keep it the most powerful fleet afloat, eventually with a full complement of bases across the globe. British dominance of the seas was vital to the formation and maintaining of the British Empire, which was achieved through the support of a navy larger than the next two largest navies combined, prior to 1920. The British generally stood alone until the early 20th century, when it became friendly with the US and made alliances with Japan, France and Russia and Germany former antagonist now ally.


1814–1914

The 100 years were generally peaceful—a sort of Pax Britannica enforced by the Royal Navy.  There were two important wars, both limited in scope. The Crimean War (1853–1856) saw the defeat of Russia and its threat to the Ottoman Empire. The Second Boer War (1899–1902) saw the defeat of the two Boer republics in South Africa and Boxer Rebellion happen the same year. London became the world's financial centre, and commercial enterprise expanded across the globe. The "Second British Empire" was built with a base in Asia (especially India) and Africa.


First World War

1920s

After 1918 Britain was a "troubled giant" that was less of a dominant diplomatic force in the 1920s than before. It often had to give way to the United States, which frequently exercised its financial superiority.  The main themes of British foreign policy included a leading role at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919–1920, where Lloyd George worked hard to moderate French demands for revenge on Germany. He was partly successful, but Britain soon had to moderate French policy toward Germany further, as in the Locarno Treaties of 1925.  Furthermore, Britain obtained "mandates" that allowed it and its dominions to govern most of the former German and Ottoman colonies.


Britain became an active member of the new League of Nations, but its list of major achievements was slight.


Disarmament was high on the agenda, and Britain played a major role following the United States in the Washington Naval Conference of 1921 in working toward naval disarmament of the major powers.  By 1933 disarmament agreements had collapsed and the issue became rearming for a war against Germany.


Britain was partially successful in negotiating better terms with United States regarding the large war loans which Britain was obliged to repay. Britain supported the international solution to German reparations through the Dawes Plan and the Young Plan. After the Dawes Plan had helped stabilize Germany's currency and lowered its annual payments, Germany was able to pay its annual reparations using money borrowed from New York banks, and Britain used the money received to pay Washington. The Great Depression starting in 1929 put enormous pressure on the British economy. Britain revived Imperial Preference, which meant low tariffs within the British Empire and higher barriers to trade with outside countries. The flow of money from New York dried up, and the system of reparations and payment of debt died in 1931.


In domestic British politics, the emerging Labour Party had a distinctive and suspicious foreign policy based on pacifism. Its leaders believed that peace was impossible because of capitalism, secret diplomacy, and the trade in armaments. Labour stressed material factors that ignored the psychological memories of the Great War and the highly emotional tensions regarding nationalism and the boundaries of countries.  Nevertheless, party leader Ramsay MacDonald devoted much of his attention to European policies.


1930s

Vivid memories of the horrors and deaths of the First World War inclined many Britons—and their leaders in all parties—to pacifism in the interwar era. This led directly to the appeasement of dictators (notably of Mussolini and of Hitler) in order to avoid their threats of war.


The challenge came from those dictators, first from Benito Mussolini, Duce of Italy, then from Adolf Hitler, Führer of a much more powerful Nazi Germany. The League of Nations proved disappointing to its supporters; it failed to resolve any of the threats posed by the dictators. British policy involved "appeasing" them in the hopes they would be satiated. By 1938 it was clear that war was looming, and that Germany had the world's most powerful military. The final act of appeasement came when Britain and France sacrificed Czechoslovakia to Hitler's demands at the Munich Agreement of September 1938. Instead of satiation, Hitler menaced Poland, and at last Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain dropped appeasement and stood firm in promising to defend Poland (31 March 1939). Hitler however cut a deal with Joseph Stalin to divide Eastern Europe (23 August 1939); when Germany did invade Poland in September 1939, Britain and France declared war, and the British Commonwealth followed London's lead.


Second World War

Having signed the Anglo-Polish military alliance in August 1939, Britain and France declared war against Germany in September 1939 in response to Germany's invasion of Poland. This declaration included the Crown colonies and India, which Britain directly controlled. The dominions were independent in foreign policy, though all quickly entered the war against Germany. After the French defeat in June 1940, Britain and its empire stood alone in combat against Germany, until June 1941. The United States gave diplomatic, financial and material support, starting in 1940, especially through Lend Lease, which began in 1941 and attain full strength during 1943. In August 1941, Churchill and Roosevelt met and agreed on the Atlantic Charter, which proclaimed "the rights of all peoples to choose the form of government under which they live" should be respected. This wording was ambiguous and would be interpreted differently by the British, Americans, and nationalist movements.


Starting in December 1941, Japan overran British possessions in Asia, including Hong Kong, Malaya, and especially the key base at Singapore. Japan then marched into Burma, headed toward India. Churchill's reaction to the entry of the United States into the war was that Britain was now assured of victory and the future of the empire was safe, but the rapid defeats irreversibly harmed Britain's standing and prestige as an imperial power. The realisation that Britain could not defend them pushed Australia and New Zealand into permanent close ties with the United States.


Postwar

Economically in dire straits in 1945 (saddled with debt and dealing with widespread destruction of its infrastructure), Britain systematically reduced its overseas commitments. It pursued an alternate role as an active participant in the Cold War against communism, especially as a founding member of NATO in 1949.


The British had built up a very large worldwide Empire, which peaked in size in 1922, after more than half a century of unchallenged global supremacy. The cumulative costs of fighting two world wars, however, placed a heavy burden upon the home economy, and after 1945 the British Empire rapidly began to disintegrate, with all the major colonies gaining independence. By the mid-to-late 1950s, the UK's status as a superpower was gone in the face of the United States and the Soviet Union. Most former colonies joined the "Commonwealth of Nations", an organisation of fully independent nations now with equal status to the UK. However it attempted no major collective policies. The last major colony, Hong Kong, was handed over to China in 1997. Fourteen British Overseas Territories maintain a constitutional link to the UK, but are not part of the country per se.


Britain slashed its involvements in the Middle East after the humiliating Suez Crisis of 1956. However Britain did forge close military ties with the United States, France, and Germany, through the NATO military alliance. After years of debate (and rebuffs), Britain joined the Common Market in 1973; which became the European Union in 1993. However it did not merge financially, and kept the pound separate from the Euro, which partly isolated it from the Euro area crisis. In June 2016, the UK voted to leave the EU.


21st century




Foreign policy initiatives of UK governments since the 1990s have included military intervention in conflicts and for peacekeeping, humanitarian assistance programmes and increased aid spending, support for establishment of the International Criminal Court, debt relief for developing countries, prioritisation of initiatives to address climate change, and promotion of free trade. The British approach has been described as "spread the right norms and sustain NATO".


Lunn et al. (2008) argue:


The GREAT campaign of 2012 was one of the most ambitious national promotion efforts ever undertaken by any major nation. It was scheduled take maximum advantage of the worldwide attention to the Summer Olympics in London. The goals were to make British more culture visible in order to stimulate trade, investment and tourism. The government partnered with key leaders in culture, business, diplomacy and education. The campaign unified many themes and targets, including business meetings; scholarly conventions; recreational vehicle dealers; parks and campgrounds; convention and visitors bureaus; hotels; bed and breakfast inns; casinos; and hotels.


In 2013, the government of David Cameron described its approach to foreign policy by saying:


The UK began establishing air and naval facilities in the Persian Gulf, located in the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Oman in 2014–15. The Strategic Defence and Security Review 2015 highlighted a range of foreign policy initiatives of the UK government. Edward Longinotti notes how current British defence policy is grappling with how to accommodate two major commitments, to Europe and to an ‘east of Suez’ global military strategy, within a modest defence budget that can only fund one. He points out that Britain's December 2014 agreement to open a permanent naval base in Bahrain underlines its gradual re-commitment east of Suez. By some measures, Britain remains the second most powerful country in the world by virtue of its soft power and "logistical capability to deploy, support and sustain  forces overseas in large numbers." Although commentators have questioned the need for global power projection, the concept of “Global Britain” put forward by the Conservative government in 2019 signalled more military activity in the Middle East and Pacific, outside of NATO's traditional sphere of influence.


At the end of January 2020, the United Kingdom left the European Union, with a subsequent trade agreement with the EU in effect from 1 January 2021, setting out the terms of the UK-EU economic relationship and what abilities the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office can use in foreign relations related to trade.


Diplomatic relations

British diplomatic relations date back to the 13th century. The United Kingdom has established diplomatic relations with all United Nations members, aside from Bhutan, in addition to three Non-UN member states: Holy See, Kosovo and Palestine. Moreover, the UK established official relations with the Sovereign Military Order of Malta on 9 October 2024. The following table lists the date from which diplomatic relations were established with other countries:


Bilateral relations

Africa

The UK established diplomatic relations with Algeria in 1962.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Tax Convention, and a Strategic Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Angola on 14 October 1977.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a High Level Prosperity Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Benin on 6 October 1960, then known as Dahomey.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Botswana on 30 September 1966.


The UK governed Botswana from 1885 to 1966, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the SACUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Tax Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Burkina Faso on 6 October 1960, then known as Upper Volta.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Burundi on 1 July 1962.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Cameroon on 1 February 1960.


The UK governed western Cameroon from 1916 to 1961, when it joined the Federal Republic of Cameroon.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Economic Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Cape Verde on 17 May 1977.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Central African Republic on 9 December 1960.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Chad on 9 December 1960.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Comoros on 3 October 1977.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Eastern and Southern Africa–UK Economic Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 7 July 1960.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Djibouti on 25 January 1978.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Egypt on 19 December 1914.


The UK governed Egypt from 1882 to 1956, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Association Agreement, a Development Partnership, and a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Equatorial Guinea on 20 June 1969.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, and the United Nations.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Eritrea on 16 November 1993.


The UK governed Eritrea from 1941 to 1952, when Eritrea united with Ethiopia into a federation.


Both countries share common membership of  the United Nations.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Eswatini on 6 September 1968.


The UK governed Eswatini from 1903 to 1968, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the SACUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Tax Convention, an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Ethiopia in 1841.


The UK governed Ethiopia from 1941 to 1942. The UK continued to governed the regions of Ogaden and Haud from 1941, until both territories were relinquished to Ethiopia in 1948 and 1955 respectively.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Gabon on 9 December 1960.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Gambia on 1 January 1965.


The UK governed the Gambia from 1816 to 1965, when The Gambia achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Ghana on 6 March 1957.


The UK governed Ghana from 1821 to 1957, when Ghana achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, an Interim Trade Partnership Agreement, a High Level Prosperity Partnership, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Guinea on 28 May 1959.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Guinea-Bissau on 12 March 1975.


The UK governed parts of Guinea-Bissau from 1792 to 1870, when it was ceded to Portugal.


Both countries share common membership of Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Ivory Coast on 12 October 1960.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Economic Partnership Agreement, a High Level Prosperity Partnership, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Kenya in 1963.


The UK governed Kenya from 1895 to 1963, when Kenya achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Economic Partnership Agreement, a Defence Cooperation Agreement, a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Lesotho on 4 October 1966.


The UK governed Lesotho from 1868 to 1966, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the SACUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement.  Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Liberia on 1 August 1849.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership. and a Tax Information Exchange Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Libya on 24 December 1951.


The UK governed Libya from 1942 to 1951, when Libya gained full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and have signed an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Madagascar on 27 June 1960.


The UK governed Madagascar from 1942 to 1943, when Madagascar was transferred to France.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Eastern and Southern Africa–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Malawi on 6 July 1964.


The UK governed Malawi from 1893 until 1964, when Malawi gained full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, and a Double Taxation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Mali on 22 March 1961.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Mauritania on 28 November 1960.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Mauritius on 12 March 1968.


The UK governed Mauritius from 1810 to 1968, when Mauritius achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Eastern and Southern Africa–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Tax Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Morocco on 28 June 1956.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Association Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Mozambique on 27 August 1975.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Southern Africa Customs Union and Mozambique–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a High Level Prosperity Partnership, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Namibia in 1990.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the SACUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Niger on 6 October 1960.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Nigeria on 1 October 1960.


The UK governed Nigeria from 1862 to 1960, when Nigeria achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Agreement, an Enhanced Trade and Investment Partnership, an Investment Agreement, and a Security and Defence Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Republic of the Congo on 9 December 1960.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic co-operation pact, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Rwanda on 1 July 1962.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with São Tomé and Príncipe on 3 December 1979.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic co-operation pact, and the United Nations.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Senegal on 20 June 1960.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Defence Cooperation Agreement, a Double Tax Convention, an Investment Agreement, and a Technical Cooperation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Seychelles on 29 June 1976.


The UK governed Seychelles from 1811 to 1968, when Seychelles achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Eastern and Southern Africa–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have an Economic Security Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Sierra Leone in April 1961.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic co-operation pact, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Somalia on 7 July 1960.


The UK governed Somaliland from 1884 to 1940 and 1941–1960, Somaliland achieved full independence on 26 June 1960. The UK also governed the remaining territory of modern Somalia from 1941 to 1950, until it became an Italian Trust Territory. Both of these territories unified on the 1 July 1960 to become Somalia.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, and a Strategic Partnership.


The UK has not established diplomatic relations with Somaliland; the UK does not recognise Somaliland to be a sovereign nation.


The UK governed Somaliland from 1884 to 1940 and 1941–1960, Somaliland achieved full independence on 26 June 1960. The Republic of Somaliland declared independence from Somalia on 18 May 1991.


The UK established diplomatic relations with South Africa on 10 March 1931.


The UK governed South Africa from 1806 until 1931, when South Africa gained full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the G20, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the SACUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, and a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with South Sudan on 9 July 2011.


The UK governed South Sudan from 1899 to 1956, when Sudan achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Sudan on 3 March 1956.


The UK governed Sudan from 1899 to 1956, when Sudan achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations and the World Health Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Tanzania on 22 April 1964.


The UK governed Tanganyika from 1916 to 1961, when Tanganyika achieved full independence; the UK governed Zanzibar from 1890 to 1963, when Zanzibar achieved full independence. Both countries unified on 26 April 1964 to become Tanzania.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, and a High Level Prosperity Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Togo on 27 April 1960.


The UK occupied Togo from 1914 to 1916, when Togo became a French mandate.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic co-operation pact, the Commonwealth, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Tunisia on 19 June 1956.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Association Agreement, a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Uganda on 9 October 1962.


The UK governed Uganda from 1894 to 1962, when Uganda achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Zambia on 17 October 1964.


The UK governed Zambia from 1911 to 1964, when Zambia achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Agreement, an Energy Africa Partnership Agreement, a Green Growth Compact, and have signed an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Zimbabwe on 18 April 1980.


The UK governed Zimbabwe from 1923 to 1980, when Zimbabwe achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Eastern and Southern Africa–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Convention, and have signed an Investment Agreement.


Asia

The UK established diplomatic relations with Afghanistan on 22 November 1921. The UK currently recognises the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan government, over the de facto Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan government, as the legal administrator of the country.


The UK governed Afghanistan from 1879–1919, when Afghanistan achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Armenia on 20 January 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the OSCE, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, an Investment Agreement, and a Strategic Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Azerbaijan on 11 March 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Health Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Bahrain on 21 August 1971.


The UK governed Bahrain from 1861 to 1971, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Bahrain–US Comprehensive Security Integration and Prosperity Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement. Both countries are negotiating a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Bangladesh on 4 February 1972.


The UK governed Bangladesh from 1699 to 1947, when it achieved independence as part of Pakistan.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. 
Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Convention, an Investment Agreement, and an Illegal Migration Returns Agreement.


The UK has not established diplomatic relations with Bhutan; the UK does recognise Bhutan to be a sovereign nation.


Relations between Bhutan and the UK date back to the 18th Century


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, and the World Health Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Brunei on 1 January 1984.


The UK governed the Brunei from 1888 to 1984, when Brunei achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, CPTPP, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement.


The UK is responsible for the foreign relations of the British Indian Ocean Territory as a British Overseas Territory.


The UK has governed the British Indian Ocean Territory since 1814.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Cambodia on 5 May 1952.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China on 17 June 1954.


The UK governed the territories of Hong Kong, from 1841 to 1941 and 1945 to 1997, as well as Weihaiwei from 1898 to 1930.


Both countries share common membership of the G20, the UNSC P5, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, an Investment Agreement, and the Sino-British Joint Declaration.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Georgia on 27 April 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, OSCE, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have and an Investment Agreement, and a Strategic Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.


The UK established modern diplomatic relations with Hong Kong on 1 July 1997. 


The UK governed Hong Kong from 1841 to 1941 and 1945 to 1997, when Hong Kong's sovereignty was ceded to the People's Republic of China in 1997.


Both share common membership of the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with India on 14 August 1947.


The UK governed the India from 1858 to 1947, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the G20, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, and a Development Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Indonesia on 27 December 1949.


Both countries share common membership of the G20, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Agreement, an Investment Agreement, and a Strategic Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Iran on 5 June 1807.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, and the World Health Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Air Transport Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Iraq on 4 October 1932.


The UK governed Iraq from 1921 until 1932, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, and a Strategic Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Israel in 1950.


The UK governed Israel from 1921 until 1948, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the OECD, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Trade and Partnership Agreement, a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement, and a Strategic Partnership. The two countries are currently negotiating a new Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Japan on 26 August 1858.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the CPTPP, the G7, the G20, the International Criminal Court, OECD, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement, a Double Taxation Convention, and a Reciprocal Access Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Jordan on 17 June 1946.


The UK governed Jordan from 1921 until 1946, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Association Agreement, a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Convention, and a Strategic Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Kazakhstan on 19 January 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the OSCE, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Convention, an Investment Agreement, and a Strategic Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Kuwait on 8 November 1961.


The UK governed Kuwait from 1899 to 1961, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have signed an Investment Agreement. The UK and the Gulf Cooperation Council, of which Kuwait is a member, are negotiating a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Kyrgyzstan on 12 June 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the OSCE, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Laos on 5 September 1955.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Lebanon on 9 February 1942.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Association Agreement, and a Development Partnership.


The UK established modern diplomatic relations with Macao on 20 December 1999.


Both share common membership of the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Malaysia on 31 August 1957.


The UK governed the Malaysia from 1826 to 1942 and 1945 to 1957, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, CPTPP, the Five Power Defence Arrangements, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Maldives on 26 July 1965.


The UK governed the Maldives from 1796 to 1965, when the Maldives achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Both countries are currently negotiating a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Mongolia on 23 January 1963.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Air Services Agreement, a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Myanmar on 7 July 1947.


The UK governed Myanmar from 1824 to 1942 and 1945 to 1948, when Myanmar achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, and a Double Taxation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Nepal on 4 March 1816.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with North Korea on 12 December 2000.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Oman on 21 May 1971.


The UK governed Oman from 1891 until 1951, when Oman achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Comprehensive Agreement on Enduring Friendship and Bilateral Cooperation, a Double Taxation Agreement, an Investment Agreement, and a Mutual Defence Agreement. Both countries are negotiating a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Pakistan on 14 August 1947.


The UK governed Pakistan from 1824 to 1947, when Pakistan achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK has not established diplomatic relations with Palestine; the UK does recognise Palestine to be a sovereign nation.


The UK governed Palestine from 1921 until 1948, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, and the United Nations. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, and a Political, Trade and Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Philippines on 4 July 1946.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Qatar on 24 May 1972.


The UK governed Qatar from 1916 to 1971, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Climate Technology Partnership, a Security Pact, a Strategic Investment Partnership, and have signed an Investment Agreement. The two countries are negotiating a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia on 20 May 1927.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Critical Minerals Partnership, a Defence Agreement, a Double Taxation Agreement, and a Strategic Partnership. Both countries are negotiating a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Singapore on 9 August 1965.


The UK governed the Singapore from 1819 to 1942 and 1946 to 1963, when Singapore achieved independence within Malaysia.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, CPTPP, the Five Power Defence Arrangements, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Digital Economy Agreement, a Double Taxation Agreement, a Free Trade Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with South Korea on 18 January 1949.


Both countries share common membership of the G20, the International Criminal Court, the OECD, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, the Downing Street Accord, and a Trade Agreement. The two countries are negotiating a new Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Sri Lanka on 22 October 1946.


The UK governed Sri Lanka from 1802 to 1948, until it achieved full independence as Ceylon.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK re-established diplomatic relations with Syria on 5 July 2025.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership.


The UK has not established formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan; the UK does not recognise Taiwan to be a sovereign nation.


In 1950, the UK switched its recognition from the Republic of China (ROC) to the People's Republic of China (PRC).


Both countries share common membership of the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Tajikistan on 15 January 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the OSCE, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, and a Double Taxation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Thailand on 18 April 1855.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Timor-Leste in 2002.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Turkey on 2 September 1924.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the G20, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, an Investment Agreement, and a Trade Agreement. Both countries are negotiating a new Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Turkmenistan on 23 January 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Health Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the United Arab Emirates on 6 December 1971.


The UK governed the United Arab Emirates from 1920 to 1971, when the United Arab Emirates achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Defence Cooperation Accord, an Investment Agreement, and a Partnership for the Future. Both countries are negotiating a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Uzbekistan on 18 February 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the OSCE, and the United Nations. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Agreement,  and a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Vietnam on 11 September 1973.


Both countries share common membership of CPTPP, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, a Double Taxation Agreement, a Free Trade Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Yemen on 24 October 1951.


The UK governed the Yemen from 1837 to 1967, when it achieved full independence as South Yemen.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, and an Investment Agreement.


Europe

The UK established diplomatic relations with Albania on 9 November 1921.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, an Investment Agreement, a Partnership, Trade and Cooperation Agreement, a Readmission Agreement, and an Agreement on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Andorra on 9 March 1994.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Health Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Austria on 8 November 1919.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Belarus on 27 January 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the OSCE, and the United Nations. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Belgium on 1 December 1830.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Classified Information Protection Agreement, a Double Taxation Convention, and a Maritime Cooperation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina on 13 April 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the OSCE. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, an Investment Agreement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Bulgaria on 23 July 1879.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement, and a Strategic Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Croatia on 24 June 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Cyprus on 1 October 1960. The UK is a "guarantor power" of Cyprus's independence.


The UK governed Cyprus from 1878 until 1960, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Commonwealth, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the OSCE, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Czech Republic on 26 October 1918.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Denmark on 25 October 1401.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the Joint Expeditionary Force, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and a Voting Participation Agreement.


The UK re-established diplomatic relations with Estonia on 5 September 1991.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, Joint Expeditionary Force, NATO, OECD, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Defence Cooperation Agreement, and a Double Taxation Agreement.


The UK was a founding member of the European Union on 1 November 1993; it seceded on 1 January 2021.


Both the EU and the UK share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the G7, the G20, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK maintains relations with the Faroe Islands through its relations with Denmark.


The UK occupied Faroe Islands from 1940 until 1945, when the Faroe Islands were returned to Denmark.


Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Finland on 28 March 1919.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, Joint Expeditionary Force, NATO, OECD, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a mutual defence agreement, and a strategic partnership agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with France in 1396.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the G7, the G20, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have the Combined Joint Expeditionary Force, a Double Taxation Convention, the Lancaster House Treaties, and Maritime Boundary Agreements in the   Caribbean and the Pacific.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Federal Republic of Germany on 20 June 1951.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the G7, the G20, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization.  Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and the Kensington Treaty.


The UK is responsible for the foreign relations of Gibraltar as a British Overseas Territory.


The UK has governed Gibraltar since 1704.


Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Greece on in 1834.


The UK governed the Ionian Islands from 1815 to 1864, when they were ceded to Greece.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, OECD, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Defence and Security Agreement, a Double Taxation Agreement, and a Strategic Bilateral Framework.


The UK is responsible for the foreign relations of Guernsey as a Crown Dependency.


The UK has governed Guernsey since 1204.


Both countries share common membership of the Crown Dependencies Customs Union. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Holy See on 16 January 1982.


Both countries share common membership of the OSCE.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Hungary on 22 May 1921.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Iceland on 8 May 1940.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Coalition of the Willing, Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, Joint Expeditionary Force, the International Criminal Court, NATO, OECD, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Ireland on 6 December 1922.


The UK governed Ireland from the 12th century until 1922 in which the Republic of Ireland achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic co-operation pact, the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Common Travel Area, and the Good Friday Agreement. The two countries have a sovereignty dispute over the Rockall Bank.


The UK is responsible for the foreign relations of the Isle of Man as a Crown Dependency.


The UK has governed the Isle of Man since 1399.


Both countries share common membership of the Crown Dependencies Customs Union. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Italy on 13 April 1859.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, G7, G20, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Export and Investment Partnership, and a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK is responsible for the foreign relations of Jersey as a Crown Dependency.


The UK has governed the Jersey since 1204.


Both countries share common membership of the Crown Dependencies Customs Union. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Kosovo on 18 February 2008.


Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement, a Partnership, Trade and Cooperation Agreement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK re-established diplomatic relations with Latvia on 5 September 1991.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the Joint Expeditionary Force, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Licehtenstein on 6 February 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, a Free Trade Agreement, a Separation Agreement, a Social Security Coordination Convention, and a Trade Agreement.


The UK re-established diplomatic relations with Lithuania on 4 September 1991.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the Joint Expeditionary Force, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Luxembourg on 8 June 1891.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Malta on 7 September 1964.


The UK governed Malta from 1800 until 1964, when it achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Bilateral Cooperation Framework, and a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Moldova on 17 January 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the OSCE, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Double Taxation Convention, and a Strategic Partnership, Trade and Cooperation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Monaco on 21 September 2007.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the OSCE, and the United Nations. Bilaterally the two countries have a Tax Information Exchange Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Montenegro on 13 June 2006.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Netherlands on 1 April 1603.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the Joint Expeditionary Force, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with North Macedonia on 16 December 1993.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Partnership, Trade and Cooperation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Norway on 6 November 1905.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the Joint Expeditionary Force, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Free Trade Agreement, a Green Partnership, and a Strategic Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Poland on 15 July 1919.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, OECD, OSCE, Trilateral Security Pact, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Defence and Security Agreement, a Double Tax Convention, and a Strategic Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Portugal on 9 May 1386.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have the Anglo-Portuguese Alliance, and a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Romania on 20 February 1880.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Defence Cooperation Agreement, and a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Russia on 24 August 1553.


In March 2022, the United Kingdom was added to Russia's unfriendly countries list.


Both countries share common membership of the European Court of Human Rights, G20, the OSCE, the UNSC P5 and the United Nations. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with San Marino on 18 November 1998.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Health Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and a Tax Information Exchange Agreement.


The UK established full diplomatic relations with Serbia on 7 February 1870.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, OSCE and the United Nations. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, an Investment Agreement, a Partnership, Trade and Cooperation Agreement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Slovakia on 1 January 1993.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Slovenia on 15 January 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established official relations with Sovereign Military Order of Malta on 9 October 2024.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Spain in 1505.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Sweden on 23 December 1653.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, the Joint Expeditionary Force, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, a Mutual Defence Agreement, and a Strategic Partnership.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Switzerland in 1891.


Both countries share common membership of the Council of Europe, European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court, OECD, OSCE, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have the Berne Financial Services Agreement, a Double Taxation Convention, and a Trade Agreement. The two countries are currently negotiating a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Ukraine on 10 January 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights, the OSCE, a Trilateral Security Pact, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Development Partnership, a Digital Trade Agreement, a Double Tax Convention, a Security Agreement, and a Political, Free Trade and Strategic Partnership Agreement.


North America

The UK is responsible for the foreign relations of Anguilla as a British Overseas Territory.


The UK has governed Anguilla since 1650.


Bilaterally the two countries have a Tax Information Exchange Agreement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Antigua and Barbuda on 1 November 1981. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed Antigua and Barbuda from 1632 to 1981, when Antigua and Barbuda achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Caribbean Development Bank, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Bahamas on 10 July 1973. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed the Bahamas from 1648 to 1973, when the Bahamas achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Caribbean Development Bank, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Tax Information Exchange Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Barbados on 30 November 1966.


The UK governed Barbados from 1625 to 1966, when Barbados achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Caribbean Development Bank, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Belize on 21 September 1981. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed Belize from 1783 to 1981, when Belize achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, Caribbean Development Bank, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Defence Cooperation Agreement, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Canada on 1 July 1926. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed Canada from 1783 to 1931, when Canada achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Coalition of the Willing, the Commonwealth, CPTPP, Five Eyes, the G7, the G20, the International Criminal Court, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the UKUSA Agreement, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and a Trade Continuity Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Costa Rica on 28 February 1848.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the International Criminal Court, the OECD, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Central America–UK Association Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Cuba on 20 May 1902.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement, and a Political Dialogue and Co-operation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Dominica on 13 December 1978.


The UK governed Dominica from 1763 to 1978, when Dominica achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, Caribbean Development Bank, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Tax Information Exchange Agreement, an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Domican Republic on 6 March 1850.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Maritime Boundary Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with El Salvador in 1883.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Central America–UK Association Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK maintains relations with Greenland through its relations with Denmark.


Bilaterally the two countries are negotiating a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations Grenada on 7 February 1974. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed Grenada from 1762 until 1974, when Grenada achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Caribbean Development Bank, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Guatemala on 12 July 1837.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Central America–UK Association Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Haiti on 13 May 1859.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Honduras on 16 June 1849.


The UK governed the Mosquito Coast from 1638 to 1787 and 1816 to 1819.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Central America–UK Association Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Jamaica on 2 August 1962.  Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed Jamaica from 1655 to 1962, when Jamaica achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Caribbean Development Bank, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Mexico on 26 December 1826.


Both countries share common membership of CPTPP, the G20, the International Criminal Court, the OECD, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, an Investment Agreement, and a Trade Continuity Agreement. Additionally the two countries are negotiating a Free Trade Agreement.


The UK is responsible for the foreign relations of Montserrat as a British Overseas Territory.


The UK has governed Montserrat since 1632.


Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Arrangement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Nicaragua on 18 January 1859.


The UK governed the Mosquito Coast from 1638 to 1787 and 1816 to 1819.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Central America–UK Association Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Panama on 9 April 1908.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Central America–United Kingdom Association Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK maintains relations with Puerto Rico through its relations with the United States.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Saint Kitts and Nevis on 19 September 1983. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed Saint Kitts and Nevis from the 17th century to 1983, when Saint Kitts and Nevis achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Caribbean Development Bank, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Saint Lucia in 1979. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed Saint Lucia from 1803 to 1979, when Saint Lucia achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Caribbean Development Bank, Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, and the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Saint Vincent and the Grenadines on 27 October 1979. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed Saint Vincent and the Grenadines as part of the Windward Islands colony from 1833 to 1979, when Saint Vincent and the Grenadines achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Caribbean Development Bank, Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, and the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Trinidad and Tobago on 31 August 1962.


The UK governed Trinidad and Tobago from 1797 to 1962, when Trinidad and Tobago achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Caribbean Development Bank, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, and the CARIFORUM–UK Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention,


The UK established diplomatic relations with the United States on 1 June 1785. UK–US diplomatic relations is commonly described as the "Special Relationship".


The UK governed the United States from 1585 to 1783, when the United States achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, AUKUS, Five Eyes, the G7, the G20, NATO, the OECD, the OSCE, the UKUSA Agreement, the UNSC P5, the United Nations, and the World Trade Organization. Bilateral the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, an Economic Prosperity Deal, and a Mutual Defence Agreement.


Oceania

The UK established diplomatic relations with Australia in March 1936. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed Australia from the late 18th century until 1942, when Australia achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of AUKUS, the Coalition of the Willing, the Commonwealth, CPTPP, Five Eyes, the Five Power Defence Arrangements, the G20, the International Criminal Court, OECD, the UKUSA Agreement, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Climate and Energy Partnership, Defence Agreement, a Double Taxation Agreement, a Free Trade Agreement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK has not established diplomatic relations with the Cook Islands; the UK does not recognise the Cook Islands to be a sovereign nation.


The UK governed the Cook Islands from 1888 until 1901, when the Cook Islands were transferred to New Zealand.


Both countries share common membership of the World Health Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Federated States of Micronesia on 31 August 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, and the World Health Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Fiji on 10 October 1970.


The UK governed Fiji from 1874 until 1970, when Fiji achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Pacific States–United Kingdom Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Kiribati on 12 July 1979.


The UK governed Kiribati from 1892 until 1979, when Kiribati achieved full independence as an independent Commonwealth republic.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court the United Nations, and the World Health Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Marshall Islands on 2 February 1992.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Health Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Tax Information Exchange Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Nauru on 1 December 1977.


The UK officially governed Nauru jointly with Australia and New Zealand from 1914 until 1968, when Nauru achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, and the World Health Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with New Zealand in March 1939. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed New Zealand from 1840 until 1947, when New Zealand achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Coalition of the Willing, the Commonwealth, CPTPP, Five Eyes, the Five Power Defence Arrangements, the International Criminal Court, OECD, the UKUSA Agreement, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have Free Trade Agreement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK has not established diplomatic relations with Niue; the UK does not recognise Niue to be a sovereign nation.


The UK governed Niue from 1900 until 1901, when Niue was transferred to New Zealand.


Both countries share common membership of the World Health Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Palau on 16 August 1996.


Both countries share common membership of the United Nations, and the World Health Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Papua New Guinea on 16 September 1975. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed Papua New Guinea from 1884 until 1906, when the territory was transferred to Australia.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Pacific States–United Kingdom Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, an Investment Agreement, and a Security Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Samoa in September 1970.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Pacific States–United Kingdom Economic Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with the Solomon Islands on 7 July 1978. Both countries are Commonwealth Realms.


The UK governed the Solomon Islands from 1893 until 1978, when the Solomon Islands achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, the World Health Organization,  and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Pacific States–United Kingdom Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Tonga on 4 June 1970.


The UK governed Tonga from 1900 until 1970, when Tonga achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Tuvalu on 1 October 1978.


The UK governed Tuvalu from 1892 until 1978, when Tuvalu achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, and the World Health Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Arrangement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Vanuatu on 30 July 1980.


The UK governed Vanuatu from 1887 until 1980, when Vanuatu achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Commonwealth, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have signed an Investment Agreement.


South America

The UK established diplomatic relations with Argentina on 2 February 1825.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Bolivia on 29 September 1840.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Brazil on 17 August 1827.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic co-operation pact, the G20, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Chile on 14 September 1823.


Both countries share common membership of CPTPP, the International Criminal Court, OECD, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Association Agreement, and a Double Taxation Convention.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Colombia on 18 April 1825.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the OECD, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Andean Countries–UK Free Trade Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries havea Cultural Agreement, a Double Taxation Agreement, an Investment Agreement, a Partnership for Sustainable Growth, and a Security Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Ecuador on 29 January 1853.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Andean Countries–UK Trade Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Agreement.


The UK is responsible for the foreign relations of the Falkland Islands as a British Overseas Territory.


The UK has governed the Falkland Islands since 1833.


Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Arrangement, and a Reciprocal Healthcare Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Guyana on the 26 May 1966.


The UK governed Guyana from 1803 to 1966, when Guyana achieved full independence.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Caribbean Development Bank, the Commonwealth, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–United Kingdom Economic Partnership Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Paraguay on 4 March 1853.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Peru on 10 October 1823.


Both countries are members of CPTPP, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the Andean Countries–UK Free Trade Agreement. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Suriname on 31 March 1976.


England governed Suriname from 1650 to 1667, when Suriname was ceded to the Netherlands. The UK occupied Suriname from 1799 until 1816.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the Caribbean Development Bank, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization, as well as the CARIFORUM–United Kingdom Economic Partnership Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Uruguay on 21 February 1833.


Both countries share common membership of the Atlantic Co-operation Pact, the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have a Double Taxation Convention, and an Investment Agreement.


The UK established diplomatic relations with Venezuela on 29 October 1834.


Both countries share common membership of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization. Bilaterally the two countries have an Investment Agreement.


Sovereignty disputes



List of territorial disputes involving the United Kingdom:


The United Kingdom claims the area between 20°W and 80°W as a British Overseas Territory. The area between 25°W and 53°W overlaps Argentina's claim. The area between 74°W and 80°W overlaps Chile's claim. The area between 53°W and 74°W overlaps the claims of both Argentina and Chile.


The United Kingdom de facto administers the archipelago as the British Indian Ocean Territory. Mauritius claims the islands. On 22 May 2025, Mauritius and the United Kingdom signed a deal to hand sovereignty over to Mauritius; the dispute will end once the deal is ratified by both parties.


The United Kingdom de facto governs Gibraltar as a British Overseas Territory. Spain claims Gibraltar, disputing the interpretation of the Treaty of Utrecht, as well as the location of the border. Gibraltarians voted overwhelmingly to remain under British sovereignty in 1967 and 2002.


The United Kingdom de facto governs the Falkland Islands as a British Overseas Territory. Argentina claims the Islands as part of its Province of Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica and South Atlantic Islands province. In 1982, the dispute escalated when Argentina invaded the islands during the Falklands War. In 2013, the Falkland Islanders voted overwhelmingly to remain a British Overseas Territory.


Rockall is an uninhabited islet located within the exclusive economic zone of the UK. Ireland, Denmark, Iceland, and the UK have all made submissions to the commission set up under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).


The United Kingdom de facto governs South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands as a British Overseas Territory. Argentina claims the Islands as part of its Province of Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica and South Atlantic Islands province. In 1982, the dispute escalated when Argentina invaded South Georgia during the Falklands War.


Commonwealth of Nations

The UK has varied relationships with the countries that make up the Commonwealth of Nations which originated from the British Empire. Charles III of the United Kingdom is Head of the Commonwealth and is King of 15 of its 56 member states. Those that retain the King as head of state are called Commonwealth realms. Over time several countries have been suspended from the Commonwealth for various reasons. Zimbabwe was suspended because of the authoritarian rule of its President.


International organisations

The United Kingdom is a member of the following international organisations:


See also

References

Bibliography

Primary sources

]

